- how much rhyme (lots of full end rhymes v. few internal slant rhymes)
- how much repetition v. variety (use lemming?)
- line length variability
- white space usage
- punctuation usage



- vocabulary 
	- contemporary v. obscure
	- object score
	- abstract score
	- image score
	- concrete score
	- emotion score
	- valence score
	- arousal score



The Harvard General Inquirer (Stone et al., 1966) consists of 182
word categories, including a category for words referring to concrete
objects (Object: 661 words) and one for words referring to abstract
concepts (ABS: 276 words). We computed an Object score for each
poem by counting the number of words that appear in the Object
category and dividing it by the total number of words in the poem. We
similarly computed an Abstract score by counting the number of words
that appear in the ABS category and dividing it by poem length.
For more fine-grained psycholinguistic measures of imageability, we
used the MRC Psycholinguistic Database (Wilson, 1988), which contains
imageability ratings for 4, 954 words (Coltheart, 1981). We derived
an Imageability score for each poem by computing the average imageability
rating for all of the words in the poem that appeared in the
database. Finally, we used concreteness ratings for 39, 955 words collected
by Brysbaert et al. (2013) to compute the average concreteness
of all words in the poem, resulting in a Concreteness score.


As seen in Pound’s In a Station of the Metro, Imagist poets often use
carefully chosen objects and imagery to evoke emotional reactions instead
of depicting emotions explicitly (Hamilton, 2004). To quantify
the degree of emotion explicitly described in each poem, we used the
EMOT category (311 words) in the Harvard General Inquirer (Stone
et al., 1966). We computed an Emotion score for each poem by counting
and normalizing the number of words that appear in the EMOT
category.
To account for more fine-grained differences between negative-
A computational analysis of poetic style / 7
valence and positive-valence words (e.g. “torture” v.s. “love”) and lowarousal
and high-arousal words (e.g. “sad” v.s. “panicky”), we in addition
used the valence and arousal norms of 13, 915 words collected by Warriner
et al. (2013). A Valence score was obtained for each poem by
computing the average valence rating for all words in the poem that
appeared in the database, and an Arousal score from average arousal
ratings.